---
id: 0108
title: 'I AM BACK!'
slug: blog-post-8
date: 'December 23rd, 2022'
img: Bird-In-A-Cage.png
tags:
  - Investing
---

Today's events include:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I AM BACK!
<br><br>
Traded events include:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;None
<br><br>
Today's picture is from:

<!--more-->

### SITE NEWS

Ok, I'm done with the 25 credit semester and now have time to work on the website. The foundation is still being worked on but I am somewhat confident that I will have the foundation completed by the end of break. The main goal is to create a _.vue file that will handle every single endpoint. This means I only have to create a page or folder or whatever in the /content folder and it will be visible on the site. Overall I only need like 2 or 3 more PRs to complete this.


### PERSONAL NEWS

I added an ECON minor to my COMS undergraduate degree and completed it in one semester. My overall take of academic economics is that it is EXTREMELY naïve. QE was seen as a positive tool. I only ever saw doubts of QE's effectiveness on QE 2+. I never saw QE 1 being doubted which was just incredibly surprising. The main argument brought up by TAs and professors was that it was better to avoid complete collapse in 2008 using QE than it was to collapse. Any argument I made along the lines of QE just kicking the can was shot down with a rebuttal of "but you don't know if it was a can kick". Again, EXTREMELY naïve. Another surprise to me was the misunderstanding of why money exists. This one surprised the hell out of me. The academic economics take on why money exists is "to help facilitate transactions". In my opinion money exists because society has some structural friction that can not be overcome by human means. This friction is obviously seen when countries attempt to become communist or socialist. Obviously, in theory, communism-then secondly-socialism are the perfect economic systems. But of course it does work in the real world. Why? It's because society has friction. This friction shows up in envy, greed, gluttony, hoarding, etc. In the Jewish/Christian/Muslim perspective this would just be explained by sin. Academic economics was also annoying tedious. I had to memorize equations and models which I will never use again. Also it was somewhat annoying to have to dumb down my answers to get a grade. A perfect example of this was on the intermediate macroeconomics final where one of the questions asked was "Will all trade balance in the long run?". In the real world the answer is obviously no but the correct answer for the class was yes. Nation defaults, war, natural crises, etc. all lead to realities where trade does not balance. An obvious counter example would be most countries that died and never came back during WW1 or WW2. How is Country A going to settle debts with Country B if country B no longer exists? Overall I am extremely proud of myself for creating a PHD level understanding of economics and finance over the last 2 years. But I will say that I can not take all the credit; ADHD and asperges give unlimited dopamine to my pursuit of knowledge.

I also read the bible over the semester. The main goal of this was to see if UFOs exist in the bible as UFOs obviously exist and are confusing in regards to religion. In my opinion UFOs show up a lot in the bible. The two angels that helped the Israelites out of Egypt for 40 years were definitely UFOs. Fortunately I am now Christian and thus saved by Christ. That dude is 100% real and the son of God. I will also be probably creating Schizo Sunday article about how we are going to (maybe) enter revelations in the next 10-20 years. If we don't enter this cycle we will 100% enter next cycle (100 years out). But tbh technology is way too advanced for us not to enter it now. 

I am also reading a lot lately and thus will be reading a lot of econ and finance books. This will help me formulate ideas. Currently I am reading "The Raven of Zurich". This is an umlaut on the "u" of Zurich but I refuse to put the effort in to learn how to type that. I am taking pictures of the pages I like and I may create a "book report" section on the website. In that section I would keep notes on book or write short summaries. I don't know; it's just an idea. 

In conclusion, I'm back and excited to rant into the void.