---
id: 0109
title: 'First Schizo Sunday Video'
slug: blog-post-9
date: 'January 1st, 2023'
img: Bird-In-A-Cage.png
tags:
  - Investing
---

Today's events include:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;First Schizo Sunday Video
<br><br>
Traded events include:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;None
<br><br>
Today's picture is from:

<!--more-->


### UHHH HEADER HERE

After being suggested to create a youtube channel or a podcast like 5 times in the last month I deciced to do so. I yolod the first video today and it went well (I think?). One topic discussed by me was how I don't know the whole "map" of data point connections in my head-or all the data points for that matter-at any given time, but what my brain can do is link a thousand topics together into a "path" instantly. Then what I love doing is just ranting that path. So, for now-and maybe in the future-I will be taking notes on what I ranted about. This will help me create the meat of the website later. I will try and upload the video to youtube but tbh I don't even know how to do that. 

I want the videos to be like lectures but who knows. For now I play Civ. 


### ECONOMIC PRINCIPALS

All economic principles guide reality. Just like how gravity affects everyone so does opportunity cost, scarcity, etc. These can not be ignored.

Economics and Society are two sides of the same coin. 

Economic wars lead the FED to not be independant. Napolean knew this and Switzerland knew it. The FED can not be independant as the federal government likes being a monopoly. Think CIA, DOD, NSA, DHS.

Yield is the money you made on an investment. 

One mans spending is another mans income. Everything in the macro economy is connected.

Debt has a certain gravity to it. In the boom this gravity default correlation is low, but during the bust this default correlation is high. 


### ECONOMIC CYCLES

Business cycle is just the macro cycle. The economic cycle has a "up" phase and a "down" phase. Crypto turning "Number go up" into a rallying cry. On the business cycle side there is a 7 year cycle, and a 100 year cycle. These cycles are almost 1-1 with the debt cycle. This cycle is talked about a lot by Ray Dalio. These cycles exist because society takes on debt. This can be hypothetically perfect but in reality never is. The founding fathers knew this and that's why the government isn't usually allowed to take on debt. A debt is a tax on the unborn generation. Debt is told to be forgiven after 7 years in the old testament. Central banks don't like the bust part of the cycle. They will thus stimulate the economy by lowering rates or by doing QE. Lowering rates below 0 is impossible in America because the public would catch on quick. Because the FED bailed out the economy over and over on the 7 year there is now a 100 years of bad debt existing in the economy. This always ends in a collapse. There are two ways to collapse. You can either collapse with inflation or deflation. 

At the end of the 100 year cycle governments either don't know this dicotomy exists or do know and are just idiots. Hyperinflation is not politically viable which leads to a deflation and a default. There is a economic black magic which is widely done. In this black magic you inflate away the value of debt. Leading to either hyper inflation or to a "utopian" magical process. But even in the "utopian" process you will have the 99% be squezzed. Also important to note that even if you hyper inflate you still have to default. Felix Somary talks about how inflation always leads to deflation. 

Inflation kills your society. People lose faith in the government and in the social fabric. People also gets squezed from all sides which leads a "meat grinder". On a sociological level this meat grinder kills trust in government. Inflation robs society. "The nation of the robbed became a nation of robbers". The prime example of this 100 year cycle collapsing and its sociological side is Weimer Republic. I explained the set up for the Weimer Republic and how both Felix Somary and Keynes warned about reperations. Weimer decided to hyperinflate. Then they backed a currency by land (they didn't have gold). Weimer Republic cycle lead to Nazi's. This leads to populist which is anti establishment. Rule of the masses rather than rule of law. America will go through this cycle. The world may too. No economy or society is surviving this cycle. 

We are at the end of the 100 year. Government is too high, rates are 0, economies around the world sucks, and there is no "savior" nation. Talked about 2008 china public works projects. 

Forest analogy. During a forest lifecyle there is growth and degrowth. Usually the degrowth phase is a forest fire. During the boom the growth is not equitable or equal. In the forest there are dead trees who take up resources even tho it does nothing. In the economy there are zombie companies. 1/5 of companies in America are zombie companies. The FED is creating a forever boom with lots of consequences. 

Be really cautious about the black magic. It doesn't work. 

The fed can now usurp the business cycle. Tiny inflation leads to a tiny boom. No hyperinflation and no deflation. The Fed doesn't like collapsing so it creates micro booms. Mirco booms lead to micro busts. Which leads to a regular 7 year bust. Which leads to a 100 year bust. It is like a junkie on drugs. "You can never have a hangover if you never stop being drunk". One way they create a micro boom is through QE or buying MBS. 

This is why Covid was so bad. The micro bust lead to a 7 year bust lead to the 100 year bust in a week. Even during the bailout it only worked because of QE infinity. Our economy is structurally addicted to bailouts. 


### MONEY

Barter -> commodities -> commoditity money -> fiat -> Crypto. 

Crypto has no market ruler. No one can tell the code what to do. There is a good video about Neo and Morpheus talking about crypto. 


### MARKETS

Markets have 4 parts: supply, demand, participant "conciousness", and a market "ruler". For the stock market supply is companies and individuals, same with demand, participant "conciousness" is everyone. The ruler should be the SEC but it's actually the FED.

I briefly talked about bubbles. The QE bubbles in crypto are obvious to see. Crypto is fun to watch. 


Talk about the invisible hand. 

### QE
I explained what it is. QE adds liquidity to the system. The stock market loves QE. 


### INFLATION AND DEFLATION

When banks loan out money it creates a "false" money. This leads to inflation because demand goes up in the present. Debt brings demand forward in time. When debt is paided off or defaulted on there is deflation as money is being removed from the system. 

Inflation poisons society and deflation kills it. Delfation is a heart attack for the economy. 

I talked about the inflation/deflation body analogy.

### EXTRA

I briefly talked about The Raven Of Zurich. 