---
id: 122
title: "AYAY Part Three: The Real World Application"
slug: ayay-part-3
date: Jan 1, 2023
img: hello-world.png
tags: []
---

# Introduction:
## Part Two Recap
In part two we viewed the Utopian application for the machine. People always did actions that worked up and thus there were no need for Money or Debt. There wasn't even a need for private property as everything remained in the community chest. However this did not make part two worthless as we still could glean some useful information. For instance we could see how the Value Trades worked. We could also see the important splits in Supply: Land, natural resources, financial assets, and everything else. Again, financial assets don't even exist yet, but land, natural resources, and everything else certainly does. 

But we can't exist in the Utopia forever. Clearly there are problems with its representation of the real world. There is no Debt, Money, Institutions, or even Private Property. Our false assumption (that everyone is magnanimous) is setting us back. We must find a true assumption to make about decision making.

## The Actual Solution For Decision Making
Last part we made this assumption: "People prioritize Humanity and specifically Humanity's happiness". Clearly it was false. This time around we shall make this assumption: "People prioritize themselves and specifically their happiness". As we discussed in part 2 clearly this is true.

This assumption will change things however. People will make greedy decisions. Tragedy of the commons and of the publics will happen. Private Property will exist and Money & Debt will too. Clearly this is a more real solution than the last solution we came up with.

## Private Property Emerging From The Tragedy Of The Commons
As we are post-magnanimous there is now the ability for people to take actions that hurt Humanity as a whole. People, at times, will prioritize the individual over the community, the part over the whole. How do we switch from CC to PP though? It is done through the tragedy of the commons. The tragedy of the commons is a rather simple problem, but it is a problem without a solution and thus it is called a tragedy. Essentially, people prioritize themselves quite often. This creates situations where someone could use a Supply in a certain way and make the Supply go extinct, become extremely scarce, or ruin the ability of the Supply to give Utility. 

The most common example shown in academics is with fishing. Say there is a community that loves fishing in the community pond. Everytime a fish is caught it is released. This is not a rule set in stone, but everyone does follow it. But say one day there is someone in the community that does want to keep the fish they catch. So what do they do? Well the rule isn't set in stone and so it has to be upto the individual to decide what to do. Do they release the fish, like the community want, or do they keep the fish, like what they want to do? Clearly this is not an easy choice for the individual. However, this situation has arose before and will arise again. What happens usually is the individual will start keeping the fish after catching which will lead to the pond running dry (no fish left). 

This seriously hurts the community. They are not able to fish at the level they wanted, and now that the pond has run dry, they are not able to fish at all. Did something go wrong? If so what was it? Clearly at the begining of the story it was asserted there was no rule against keeping the fish, so was the individual at fault? What happened here was a classic tragedy of the commons. Blame could technically be assigned to the individual but there was never actually a rule against it so the blame would not hold up in a court of law. But blame is irrelevant here. We simply want to see the economics of this example. The individual kept Connecting with a Supply and just Connected one too many times. This caused the pond to run dry and now no one can Connect with the Supply (go fishing). The solution to stop this was to put the pond in Private Property. Someone (or collectively through government) would own the pond and thus they would stop if from running dry. In other words: The solution for tragedy of the commons is Private Property. 

While fishing is most common example of the tragedy of the commons it is not the only tragedy of the commons. EVERY SINGLE Supply in Private Property has gone through the tragedy of the commons. How can we say this? Because everything exists in the Community Chest until there is a reason for it to exist in Private Property. So, for example, cars are private property. This means there had to be a reason for cars to be in private property. There was too much non-magnanimous Demand and it caused the majoirty of cars to exist in the Community Chest. Here is another easy example to see why Private Property exists. People would just take cars for joy rides if they were in the Community Chest. Cars have to be Private Property. And say for instance your car did break down and you wanted to simply get rid of it. If this was 100 years ago you would drive or push it a bit aways from civilization and it would be in the Community Chest. You could technically have claim by law or by your own reasoning. But generally at that point it would be in the Community Chest and people would either take or pick away at it. 

## Wealth & Net Worth
Well is wealth then? Wealth is Supply owned by an individual. So if a Human owns four fire trucks and nothing else then that Humans wealth is four fire trucks. If someone else owns 20 pigs, 50 cows, 520 mansions over 50000 acres of land, 4 financial firms, 1 real estate company, etc etc they would have that as their wealth. 

Here are some examples of Wealth for the Humans (A, B, and C):
* Wealth of A = {1 Cow, 1 Nintendo Switch, 50,000 Corn Kernals}
* Wealth of B = {20 Pigs, 1 House, 1 Acre}
* Wealth of C = {1 Aompany, 1 Apartment}

However, based on this definition, wealth would also include liabilities. This would mean that the hypothetical person D would exist:
* Wealth of D = {$100,000 Student Loans, 5 Perfect Diamonds}

Ok, what is Net Worth then? Net Worth has to be the total Value of a Human's Wealth, but here we run into a problem. Because we can not Value a Supply without a context we can not Value the Wealth withou a context. Which means we can't actually find Net Worth for any of the Humans nor can we compare the Wealth of the four Humans. Maybe D has a higher net worth than A, but the opposite may also be true. Usually, in the real world, people like to use markets to Value Wealth into a Net Worth. However, as I've warned multiple times so far, markets are not perfect at this job; they are just usually they best at finding a Value for a Supply. 

## Subjective Value Becomes Important
Because Private Property now exists (as we shall see in the proofs) there is now a need for Subjective Value. People now have to Subjectivly Value each Supply based on whatever they believe. It's important to understand there is an objective Value for each Supply, but it is based on a context that must be defined. Again, there is no one correct Objective Value for a Supply. You can not say things like "The firetruck is worth $10,000" or "this rock is worth five cows" because what does that even mean? In what context are these true? If the context is solely based on the market then so be it, but as we shall see later markets are not good at evaluating worth.

So where does Subjective Value show up? Subjective Value will show up quite a bit. It is really important for Barter, Money, and Debt. It is also really really really important for tragedy of the commons and tragedy of the publics. Because we are now post magnanimous people will start Demanding simply because it is the profitable action to do so. Take diamonds for instance, even though the average person has absolutely no need for diamonds they still grab as many as they can. Why? Because individuals Subjectively Value diamonds highly and thus the diamonds can be bartered for other Supply that gains Utility.

## Barter & Faltering Efficiency
Well great, we have Private Property, Wealth, and & Net Worth. Are we missing anything so far? Yes. There has to be a way to trade ownership of Supply: this is done through barter. Barter takes place when someone wants to trade ownership of Supply for ownership of Supply with someone else. In barter there are two parties each with their own Supplies they want to exchange. Each exchanging party has to want what the other has. If someone had 1 cow but wanted 2 pigs they would go to the market and try to find someone who wanted a cow for 2 pigs. If the person did exist and they found each other then the trade could take place. But this becomes unsustainable fast as there are a couple of problems that arise. 

The first problem is that both parties need to exist and have to want to partake in the same trade of Supplies but on oppostite end. In the case above about a cow and 2 pigs someone had to want 2 pigs for 1 cow and another person had to want 1 cow for 2 pigs. This problem is called the double coincidence of wants. 
  
The other problem that arises is a question of Value. Each person has their own Subjections about what the Value of each Supply is. This is Subjective Value or SV. Each person's SV of a Supply is unique to that individual. The first Human (who wants 2 pigs for a cow) subjectively values the two pigs higher than the cow. On the other hand, the second Human (who wants a cow for 2 pigs) subjectively values the cow higher than the two pigs they currently own. Because of this difference in subjective value the trade can take place. After the trade happens both parties believe they are better off. Total SV owned by both parties goes up. Both, one or none of the parties might be better off in terms of Value. But most importantly both parties believe they are better off. SV always goes up with barter (otherwise the trade would not take place), and the Value change is known only by God.

In this current example both parties believed they would better off post trade and thus the trade took place. If both or one of the parties believe that they will be worse off after the trade then the trade won't take place. Maybe the cow looks sickly or the two pigs look small. There are essentially an infinite number of reasons that the SV of the wanted Supply is percieved lower. This percieved low SV causes the trade not to happen.

The final aspect to look at is Economic Efficiency, and boy does it look bad. Because we only have Private Property and no Money or Debt the efficiency is rather distraught. People have to trade with each other to get Supplies they want to connect with. If someone is a sheep shearer they would need to buy food, water, and (or rent) a house. If someone is a brick layer they would need to buy food, water, and clothes but could make their own house. Someone who fishes doesn't need to buy food but does need to buy everything else. Right off the bat there doesn't seem to be much of a problem as people would just trade up right? No. The double coincidence of wants is a tough problem to solve. As Humanity progressed farther into technology there is a need for specialization. For instance, if someone specializes in wafer chip production and can't trade the silicon chips for food they will not produce the chips. But the chips are neccesary for phone and laptop production. So under the barter system (specifically in this hypothetical) phones and laptops would not be able to be produced. This is simply a hypothetical but is the truth. If you consume media of nations bartering you will see the situation is awful: food, water, and gas always seem to be the most important. But when you are prioritizing them at expense of everything then you are not producing say laptops or phones. 

In my opinion a barter economy could theoretically create a steam engine, but that's about as far as it would get. The barter economy rarely exists in history, and when it does it is easily conquered by a rival economy (rival nation). Frankly, the Barter economies I've seen exist only for a short while and are not even worth living in: I would rather die than live in a barter economy.

# Explanation:


# Concepts:
## Tragedy Of The Publics
We've already discussed the tragedy of the publics, why it exists, and it's affects on Supply. We talked about a fishing example in which the solution to stop the pond from running dry was to put the pond in Private Property. But this solution only works if the Supply is an Excludable Supply. What happens if the Supply is a Non-Excludable Supply? Well in academics they would say that quite clearly there isn't a problem, that if the Supply is Non-Excludable then there could never be a problem. But that's wrong. There very much can be a problem. Take an form of video entertainment for example. I am going to use Tiktok simply because the existance of the 6-second short form video is distressing to say the least. Watching Tiktok is Non-Excludable so the question needs to be asked. Can you watch too much Tiktok? The answer is yes! And that is what the tragedy of the publics is. People Connect some Supplies way too much. At some point watching Tiktok makes you a detriment to society. You have become a burden who must be dealt with some way simply because you watched too much Tiktok. Have you committed a tragedy of the commons? No, but you did commit a tragedy of the publics.

## Income & The Wealth Effect
Another concept to look at is Income and The Wealth Effect. We've already seen the proof for income, but let's see how it operates. Over time Wealth held by individuals will change. This change in Wealth is Income, and can be viewed in the same way as wealth by using the Lorenz curve. Income can be equal or unequal, equitable or unequitable, etc. 

The final part to touch on is The Wealth Effect. The Wealth Effect simply states that as a Human feels richer they will spend, waste, or use more. The increase in feelings of richness can come from various places. Maybe it came from an increase in Income, maybe from an increase in Wealth, maybe you just woke up and felt richer. It doesn't matter where the feeling came from or if the feeling is even rational. You feel richer and so you will spend, waste, or use more.

## The Hard Line Problems
There are two Hard Line problems that pop up now that people are able to Demand in way that is not for the benefit of everyone. The first problem, called the Material Hard Line Problem, is a question of who should own what? Should the rich exist? Should all income be the same? Should everyones Wealth be the exact same? Maybe one Human owns all Apples while another owns all iron bars? All these questions are tied up in the Material Hard Line Problem. 

The second, called the Spiritual Hard Line Problem, is a question of who should do what? Should murder be allowed in society? Rude comments? Comments that arn't even rude but you disagree with? Comments that arn't rude but your neighbor disagrees with? Should these be jailable offenses? If you do any of these should you be killed? Maybe a slap on the wrist? 20 years of hard labor? These questions are all tied up in the Spiritual Hard Line problem.

Unfortunately neither problem can be solved by Humanity, and Humanity has been plagued with these for forever. No one can successfully create a Material Hard Line that creates perfect Economic Efficiency. That isn't to say a very succesful one can't be created, but over time it will erode and you will left in a unequal system that requires a redistribution. In regards to the Spiritual Hard Line Problem, this is a problem that is attempted with in regards to the law. Societys creates punishments for Demands that are deemed bad. For instance, murder is banned prolifically around the world. This is every nations attempt at creating a Spiritual Hard Line. No one will ever be 100% successful in creating a Spiritual Hard Line; everyone will fail. 

## Wealth Redistribution
When the Wealth Lorenz curve is extremely unfair, you can solve the inequality problem (if you think there is a problem) by taxing Income on the rich and giving it to the poor. This works rather well throughout history (minus the last 100 years), but there is a problem. Sometimes Wealth can become so unequal that it is impossible to redistribute Wealth this way. There are times were the rich own everything and poor own nothing. Redistributing Income here is not going to solve the actual problem. In these situations the actual problem is that Wealth is structurally unequal not that Income is unequal. In these situations it is hypothetically possible to successfully redistribute Wealth by taxing Income. However it would never actually happen in the real world. Instead there is usually a revolution and the rich are guilliteened. Then Wealth is redistributed because the wealthy no longer are alive and their offspring are usually killed.

# Tool:
## Lorenz Curve