---
id: 119
title: "AYAY Part Zero: Introduction"
slug: ayay-part-0
date: Jan 1, 2023
img: hello-world.png
tags: []
---

Quote: I would rather die with God than live forever with the Devil.
Quote: All that I do, I do for the glory of God.

# Who I Am 
I'm going to try and be extremenly honest about who I am. I don't want anyone to be mislead or anyone to think I am a liar.

I went to a private catholic elementary school but if I am being honest about my views on it: I hated that school. It was never intellectually stimulating enough for me and was extremely boring. I was always gifted in regards to mathematics and was extremely bored when the class took a day or two (sometimes even a week) to grasp a concept I understood in the first moment. I distinctly remember a moment when the class was having to write out an addition or subtraction equation that the teacher was saying and give the correct answer. I was so bored with the concept and the test that a friend and I created a game to see who could answer first. We refinded the proccess so much that we would actually pre write certain parts of the answer. For example we knew there would always be a line so we would always draw the line even before the teacher started saying the problem. We also knew that because it was an addition or subtraction problem that we could always write the subtraction sign '-' and just add vertical line if it turned out to be an addition problem. In other words we knew that the '-' symbol was always in the '+' symbol so no matter what we could always write the '-' symbol.

One time I brought in treats on my birthday-as is the social milieu-and was tired of seeing everyone pass them out in a a diagonal or horizontal line so instead I tried a diagonal line. Needless to say it didn't work and I probably lost some social credit in the classroom. In one grade, I can't remember which, there was a guessing game where we would guess how many candies were in a container and if we were the closest we would get to keep the candies. This happened once a month for probably 8-10 total times. Out of the class of 20+ I won twice. It was never really surprising that I won considering I just approached the problem mathematically while everyone else just guessed a number. But to the adults and especially my parents this was a huge achievement. What was most annoying about my education in the elementary school was that a couple of the other kids got to skip forward in mathematics while I wasn't allowed to. To this day I don't know why, and if I'm being honest have never explored why, but I'm assuming my initial guess is true: That the kid's parents put them there. The kid's chosen to advance certainly shoudl have advanced. I'm sure they were bored just as I was, but I also know that I was better at math than they were. Why were they allowed to advance while I wasnt?

Another thing I hated about the elementary school was the fact that mass was manditory on Wednesday. Thankfully this policy was introduced when I only had a couple years left and so I didn't have to suffer very long. My family also attended catholic mass on Sunday which meant I went twice a week to mass. I was never religious and if I'm being frank never saw anyone actually uphold or act in the ways or virtues espoused by the religious. Even today you would be hard pressed to find someone who actually follows the teachings of God or Jesus. Nevertheless this religion was forced down my throat. I never believed in God then and this certainly didn't help foster any faith. When growing a plant it's best to not flood it with water.

I never had many friends in elementary school and when I moved schools for middle school I didn't have much luck. There in the American public school system I learned to fend for myself socially. Everyone always hates on the public school system but it does nothing other than show what society for adults actually is. I learned that the truth was irrelevant for the masses. That if you could convey and idea with gusto and change your tone or words you could gain social standing. I learned that the truth was maluable. That if 1+1 needed to equal 3 for the benefit of any party it could equal 3. Who was I to challenge public opion? Who is anyone? If everyone believes 1+1 is equal to three then it might as well be. Saying it equals 2 while true only hurts your social standing. Generally I was ironic and never cared much. Math was fun though.

In high school I was generally friends with about everyone. I joked about life and never took it seriously. To be fair how could I? Society hates the truth and is repelled by even the idea that their world view is wrong. I knew everyone in my grade and could have a conversation with anyone. I knew how to toe the social line and play the social game. It wasn't about truth or being friendly. It was a strategy game to interact and thus you had to employ game theory. I learned to say the right words and to have the right tone. Luckily I could construct funny jokes on the spot which disarmed situations. Most importantly I learned to disprove the opposition while making the masses laugh. That was vital.

In college I started to become more recluse. I have under five people I would consider friends. I have quite a bit of aquentances but if they ever asked me to do something with them I would probably come up with an excuse. Frankly all people want to do now a days is drink, talk about drama, or watch a circus in whatever form that may take: sports, TV, youtube, tiktok, twitch. These are rather boring topics so I avoid them. I majored in computer science simply because I wanted to program as a job. Programs are simple, they always do as they are told, and best of all they never reject the truth. I don't have to employ a strategy or use any game theory when interacting with code. The two most important classes I took in the computer science degree were 230 and 331. These were both proofs classes. 

230 is literally the most failed class on campus and I had to drop out the first time I took it. The next time I took it I was with my computer science friends and we would spend two or three hours each week at the library just doing the homework only to get a 70%. As brutal as the class was at times it was necessary for me to take it. I understand the fundamentals of proofs and logic better than the majority of mathematically inclined individuals. The language of logic is the universal language. It's the language that everyone can understand. And best of all this universal language has an inherient thirst for the truth. It doesn't matter if someone disagrees or not. The truth is proven mathematically. To ignore, avoid, or hate on proofs would be to choose to be blind instead of being able to see because what you may see conflicts with what you believe.

331 was just as important. In this class we built logical machines to prove if a problem could be solved or not. We learned about Turing Machines and proved how they work. Learning about Turing Machines in this class was the most important thing I ever learned in school. In sum the Turing Machine was created to solve the decidability problem in mathematics. The problem is essentially whether or not all problems in mathematics could be decided. I.E. if you give math a question can math answer it truthfully 100% of the time? He solved this problem by creating a computer then creating a problem of decidability for the computer. If you gave the computer a question could it solve it 100% of the time? The question asked was given a program will it halt? The answer was that it couldn't be determined. Turing had broken mathematics by proving not all problems could have an answer. But that wasn't why learning about Turing Machine was the most important part of my college experience. 

To solve a fundamental problem Turing had created a computer which is an incredibly useful tool. We use computers for every facet of life: if you are ever dealing with a piece of equipment or technology that uses a chip you are dealing with Turing's invention. Every facet of life deals with these things. But Turing didn't invent the computer so that we could have laptops or phones. He invented the computer to solve a math problem. It just so happened that the computer fundamentally changed the world. In sum he created a swiss army knife to unscrew a screw. It showed me that problems could be approached from a different persepective and with an insanse or sometimes absurd scope. You could create complex models just to show one simple fact. That you were free to solve problems the way you wanted. 

The final major event that happened in my life was seeing a psychiatrist in my junior year of college. I got diagnosed with Aspergers, ADHD, an anxiety disorder, and was told I was "highly intelligent". These four guide my life more than I do at times. The ADHD gives me addictions to things I didn't even think could be addicting. I got addicted to running which put me in the best shape of my life. At the peak I was running four 5ks a week. This went on for about a year or two and completed with a crescendo of a 10k. Once I ran the 10k I had no motivation to even get on the treadmill again. This is the cycle everyone with ADHD understands. High motivation for a long time then a peak then nothing. Another thing to note about ADHD is that I will literally get addicted to words or phrases. For example you will see a lot of "simply", "frankly", or "to be honest" in this section. Why? I'm simply addicted to these words as of right now. This addiction will fade and new words will take that addiction slot. You'll see words or phrases be used frequently throughout the book that may seems to be overused. It's just because I am addicted to them.

The Aspergers is a beast all of it's own. This is Autism in case you didn't know. This is why I approach everything in life differently than everyone else. It's why I decided to pass out the treats in a diagonal. It's why I'm better at mathematics than just about anyone I have ever meet. It's why I have a friction with society that no one else seems to have. It's why I value the truth and don't understand why others don't. It's why I like coding and programming. It's why I am different. Aspergers also gives me a drive the same way that ADHD does. But instead of the physical addictions that ADHD gives me they are mental addictions. I got addicted to learning economics with Aspergers starting in 2020 and the drive hasn't seemed to stop. With ADHD the addictions come and go but with Aspergers it seems to be forever. Not that I am complaining, that dopamine that Aspergers gives me is absurd. I get more dopamine learning obscure economic or financial concepts that what it seems like others do by doing their favority activiy. This also give me the out of box thinking that society prizes so much. This high evalution is largly only on the surface as, again, society seems to hate the truth. 

The ADHD and Aspergers make me neurodivergent. I think differently than other people do. If a neurotypical and I were to watch or experience the same media I would come out with a different understanding then they do. This can be great and it can be bad, but frankly I love being neurodivergent. I actually feel bad for people who are neurotypical. I love specializing in a certain niche of life and being able to do actions or understand ideas that others can not. If you were to make me choose between neurotypicality and neurodivergence I would neurodivergence 100% of the time. However you would never actually know I am neurodivergent unless I told you. I am exceptional at masking: I know how to play the social game better than most of the neurotypicals do.

I'm writing this while really happy: I actually love being Autistic: it is literally amazing. I love breaking stuff down mechanically. I love viewing everything through math. I love that I can solve puzzles better than others, I love seeing emotional parts of life like social interactions, and ranking them. I love the game theory behind the conversations, and I love how beautifully I can play that game. I even love that social interactions drains me and how I need to recarge. I love having the outside opinion and the out of box idea. I would not trade this for anything, and certainly I would trade everything for this.

The anxiety disorder if I am being honest isn't even a bad thing. There are moments when I wish it didn't exist and if I am being frank it sort of blocks your dating life as men are expected to make the first move. But in all other aspects of life it is a positive with the right mindset. If I am anxious about something I will simply just research and see if the anxiety is founded on reality. This led me on the economics binge I am still on now. I saw a picture on twitter of stocks being valued higher than what they were valued at during the 1929 crash and it scared me. I immedietally started learning to see what would ahppen. But we will talk about economics at extent later: let's get back on track. If the anxiety isn't founded in reality then I simply tell myself that there is no need to worry: the math disagrees with the anxiety. Unfortunately I can't always logically parse out every worry. I constantly worry if I am doing is correct. I worry if the ideas I have are true. When I walk across the street I imagine myself being hit by a but and live out that reality for a brief moment of time before logic snaps me back to reality. I don't think I've ever had a panic attack but I certaintly doubt myself constantly. I'm constantly critiquing my own existance. I can ever be just happy I need to prove that I should be happy.

Which leads to the last diagnosis: "highly intelligent". To be honest I actually hate this one the most. The majority of friction I have with society can be atributed to this diagnosis and not the other three. Frankly, people hate the truth and I am exceptional at finding it which structurally pits me against society. I was told during my meeting with the psychiatrist that "no system will ever be built or me" and I have to tell you that my God is it true. School was never designed or me. The government isn't designed for me. No news or information show is designed for me. No entertainment is designed for me. I am disconnected from everyone and everything. However this is not the reason I hate being "highly intelligent". I hate it because I can NEVER talk about it without people thinking I am bragging. There is never an occurance where I can simply talk about being smarter and the issues that arise. Everyone always has to drag me down to their own insecurities as if I asked God to be smarter than them. Frankly it pisses me off, but I do not a want a pity party. I read classics and theory for fun and it is more enriching and enlightening that any circus could give me. I am in a an incredibly privileged position. It just so happens I have quite a lot of friction with society where as other have little or none.

I love my brain and it's abilities. I love the concepts and ideas it thinks about. I love reading a book and having ideas that the majority don't. I love seeing the world as it truly is. I am not lying when I say these four guide my life. Genuenily when I talk about my brain I tell people to see me and brain as two seprate but connected entities. The black box that is my brain is just thinking complex thoughts in the back ground. On the surface I am here with everyone else. I talk to and ask my brain the same way that people talk to and ask me questions. I am disconnected from the black box just like you. It just so happens that this is my brain and only I can see it's thoughts. I would not trade anything for a different brain. This is my brain and this is my reality. I want to keep it. I joke with my friends that I want a lobotomy but to be frank I would rather die than nueter the black box. I have zero friction with my brain and the only friction the brain does emit is from from it's friction with society. Can I really blame the brain for problems that arise when they always arise simply because I have friction with society? Of course not. The brain is innocent of it's friction and I know it.

The final aspect to talk about is my mental health, but I am going to only touch on this on the surface level. Frankly none of you have a right to poke and prode in this area but I feel it is neccesary for the reader to understand who I am. So that when I talk about ideas or concepts that sound insane you know where they are coming from. Some of you may read this part about my mental health and discredit everything I talk about after. If you are someone who is going to do that: truly I feel sorry for you. 

I am the upper middle child from a family of six (one brother and four sisters) and to cut it short I never got any attention. I can't remember ever being congratulated or praised for an achievement. The family was never fully functional and the relationships I had with my siblings were never healthy either. To be honest I'm not sure I care about the tragedies that involved my childhood anymore. I have grown past them and while they still dictate parts of my life I have largely moved on. While I was addicted to running the 5ks I would employ CBT (congnative behaviour therapy) on myself. Something I taught myself from scratch. I would bring up an issue I needed to dissect and would determine how I felt and how I wanted to feel. I would logically and emotionally work my way to the conclusion I wanted. In this was I could move past my past and onto a brighter future. 

I am not fully without fault however. I have done actions that I would strangle my past self to prevent from taking place. Unfortunately, I do not have the ability to strangle my past self. Fortunately, I do have the ability to forgive myself. And while I still doubt my existance at times and my worth as a human being in regards to being alive, I am largely in a better place. I was certainly depressed for at least five years. If I'm stretching a bit I would say at least a decade. Luckily I am no longer in that position. While I am dissecting the past: I don't actually know why I didn't commit suicide. Logically it was the easiest way out of the problem. I was a strict athiest and viewed life as just a highly complex mechanical movement. I didn't believe in God, Heaven, or Hell. I really don't know why I didn't just commit suicide. The closest I ever got was while I was drunk on wine I brought a knife to the bathroom, and decided that if it felt right I would just end it. It didn't feel right and so here I am.

Combining all of this together I have rather volitile emotions. I can switch from happy to sad to extremly happy to extremely mad in the same minute. I have control over my emotions and only those close to me can see the swings in my mannerisms but they still exist. I always compare it to surfing. The emotional waves I try to surf are a hell of a lot higher than everyone elses, and god am I bad at surfing. Even when I try to surf the normal waves that I see everyone else surfing so easily I fail. At times it seems I can't even ride small waves without falling off. At times it seems I can't even get on the surfboard without falling off. I am not deft at emotions: they are unnatural to me. But the other part of life, the beach that is logic, comes extremely easily. I can built those logical sand castles better than anyone can. I can show people around the beach and I teach people how to build the sand castles. But it seems I can not surf the waves and I never will be able to. I stay on the beach because I am confortable there. Rarely are my estimations or predictions of the beach wrong. Rarely am I hurt by staying on the beach. Sure it's a rather numb existance, but I can not surf. I really wish I could surf. I really wish I could surf just as well as everyone else can but I just can't. Sometimes I think about what it would be like to live a life without emotions. To be a purely logical being. If you gave me the offer to be a complete robot, only logic and no emotion, I fear I would take it. 

So why am I telling you all this? I need you to understand I am an extreme outlier. I had to be Gen Z to see the economy and society through the lens I do. I had to have ADHD, have aspergers, be "highly intelligent", AND constantly doubt myself from the anxiety disorder. On top of this I needed to have a permenant preferance to logic over emotions, I needed the right mindset towards existance which I thankfully finaly have, and I needed the ability to parse information online at a rate no one else can. I'm in a position few in history ever are. All of these combine to the fact that I understand economics beautifully, and I want to share that with you. I want you to understand the economy, and I want you understand the position we are in. I will give you this information but you need to do one thing. You need to abandon any sense of doubt that exists solely because I do not have a masters or a PHD. You have to be willing to accept that you may not know something. That I may know more than you. You might say "well that's easy" and if it truly is for you I applaud you, but it like pulling teeth to get people to admit they don't know something in the real world. Those of you who are able to admit they don't know, will be read without making appeals to authority and appeals to populus, and will comeout with a stronger understanding of the truth.

In regards to the information I am going to give you: I'm in the position to connect only the major dots. My brain really only cares about the high level, and this has been true all throughout my life. If I apply myself I can memorize the low level, but generally it never actually matters. The high level is where life is lived. Because of this I can not give extremely in-depth information on all the minor details. If you ask for an equation I can not give it to you. If you ask why society does a certain action I can not give you a reason. I can only give you the high level and maybe a guess. Think of me as a forst ranger who presents a carcass. I can give you the skeleton, some of the flesh, and maybe a story. But the majority I can't find or easily understand: the hidden information is out of the scope of expertise for my neurodivergence. Nevertheless we can learn from the carcsss and glimpse into the future. And in regards to the model I want you think of it as an outlier from an outlier. You will not see what I am going to give you anywere else. Unfortunately only I am in the position to make the model and draw the conclusion about the future using the model.

# Why I Am Writing This
As we touched on, while I was talking about my addiciton in regards to learning economics, I was scared about valuations in the stock market. The valuations were clearly high and were inextricably so. Valuations as high as they are right now always precipitated a financial and economic crisis. I very clearly saw the valuations and was scared about the repurcussion on my life. Was I about to experience a great depression? Was I graduating into one? What I learned early on in my pursuit was that yes, we were. The economy had the same problems we faced in 1929; high debt and high valuations plagued society. I soon wanted to talk to anyone I could about this problem. Maybe we as a society could do something. Quickly I learned that the masses don't want to be awoken. That the bread and circus had an allure I couldn't see. 

Over the course of the past year I have delved deeper and deeper. I learned more about economics than most undergrads majoring in economics ever will. I understand more about macroeconomics than most of my professors do. Unfortunately there is no one I can discuss this with. Instead I have to take up the mantle of lecturer. But the idea I want to discuss too complex for a simple conversation. If we were to try and do this in conversation we would have to introduce concepts and ideas one at a time. We would have to flesh them out and dissect them to a complete understanding before we can move on and discuss the next. To properly talk about the economics past the briefest possible surace level would take a conversation that lasts at least three to five hours. Obviously this is not possible for any party involved. Instead, to talk about the economic situation, I will create a model for you. We will use the model and see the economics of it. We watch how the model flows and what information we gleen from it. It's important to understand, and I will talk about this later, but the model can not be run. However that does not matter; the model runs in real life. We are simply constructing the model to see how economic ideas and concepts work. Another way to think about this is to think about Turing machines. They were the first computer; a logical machine that could solve any problem. The model is a logical machine that design to run only one process. The rel world. The model can never be run but it doesn't matter. The model's output is just real life.

The ideas and concepts we will discuss, prove logically, and dissect are more complex than what you will see in college for economics. We will touch on a broad range of topics just so that we can understand the economic situation as best as possible. I want everyone to know exactly why the economy is doing what it is doing, and I want everyone to know what the future will look like. We will the use the model to guide us through the concepts.

There is another aspect to talk about: This book is not solely about economics. While the economics is very very important to understand it is not the only thing that matters. We are a position in society that will not come again. Our society is rotting at its core. Social policies taken by the government and embraced whole heartedly by society are very short lived policies. In the long run these policies fall apart and society falls apart with it. We are at a critical moment in society and frankly I don't think anything can be done about it. Nevertheless we shall discuss the problems and future of society. I'm not gonna lie about our situation: we are tiptoeing with collapse. Soon we will have a dictator and it will be the final one. 

The model will actually also be useful in regards to sociology. I did not plan this or create the model with this intent, but it is which gives another reason to create the model and flesh it out. But I don't actually want to create the model. I would much rather just rant ad infinitum and if you make it to the end and understand then lucky you. Of course that has no benefit to society and as such we shall create and use the model. The model is only being created to prove facts about economics, the world economy, and the current world social standing. It only exists to prove we are beyond distraught economically and socially. I.E. we will have a great big depression and a great big dictator.

# Logic
Because proofs and logic is taught rather awfully in middle, high and college I'm going to briefly explain it.

Logic is just math. The greeks believed there was a logical force that permeated reality and they called it the logos. Plato, who is famous for a lot of reasons, is mostly famous for his idea of the theory of forms. Which essentially states everything can be abstractified and the physical world is just a defined version of a form. Every square you see isn't a perfect square but your mind can form the idea, or a form, of a square. The final assertion is that the square you see if faker than the form of a square and if you abstractify so much you now have the logos. Now a days people simply view the logos as math and mathematical proofs. You may have seen or done some proofs in high school, and if you were in an engineering, mathemcatical, or computer science field in college you may have done some proofs there. Nevertheless let's quickly go over it.

You can think of logic as the universal language. Just like how in English you can say "A dog is running after a ball" so too can you say this in Logic. In Logic you have define a bit more. Because it is the universal language everyone needs to be on the same page, and everyone can only be on the same page if everything in the statement is defined. So for our example we would need to define a couple of things. First we need to define 'running after', then a dog, then a ball. Luckily, we don't have to fully mathematically define each of these three. We don't have to get into exactly what 'running after' means or what exactly a dog is. Even if defining a ball would relatively easy compared to defining a dog we don't have to do it. We simply have to create variables and function that interact in a logical way. 

Again, for our example we need three things defined. A dog, a ball, and the process of 'running after'. For defining a dog and a ball we can simply create variables and say they are these things. So we can say the following:

For the two nouns:
* Variable D = "a dog"
* Variable B = "a ball"

For the one process:
* RunningAfter(X, Y) = "X is running after Y".

Then we combine the three together as:
* RunningAfter(D, B)

RunningAfter(D, B) simply means that "D is running after B". But we know that D = "a dog" and B = "a ball". So we substitute these definitions in and say that RunningAfter(D, B) simply means that "A dog is running after a ball".

Our original sentence in english was "A dog is running after a ball". And after defining the two nouns and the one process we can say that RunningAfter(D, B) also means "A dog is running after a ball". We have taken the english sentence and turned it into the unversal language that is logic. It's important to understand that we still had Enlish in the definitions but that doesn't matter. Logic simply combines the variables and processes in a concrete framework: It's a framework that will always work the same way and thus will always be understood by anyone in the same way.

Now onto proofs. 

# Proofs
Proofs are simply deductive reasoning. When are playing clue and are finding information and forming a conclusion about how the murder happened you making a proof. Proofs don't have to be expressed in the way either. Proofs can be written in any language. What matters with proofs is that the flow of reasoning stays true. This is why they are commonly used in mathematics. Math is very easy to remain 100% logical, and this is why most people's first encounter with proofs is in math. More specifically in geometry with triangles. Triangles have relatively simple proofs that are easy to work with. You don't have to understand higher math you just have to be able to do deductive reasoning given some facts.

A lot of people may have been given some facts about a shape and been to prove if the shape was a triangle. 

So for example if you were given the following facts:
* This shape has three edges
* All the edges are perfectly straight
and were to prove the shape was a triangle you coule do so in the following manner.

You would say that by a triangle by definiton has three perfectly straight sides. And because in the given information that the shape has three perfectly straight side that the shape must be a traingle.

This is a proof. Notice that symbols were never used and that whole sentence was in English. Proofs don't have to be in the logical language. We could define the given facts as logical variables but thats a lot of work when we could just give a couple English sentences.

Another example of a proof is this. Imagine there are three people in a house with one apple on a table. The first person, let's call him Bob, has to leave the house all day and do some work. The second person, let's call her Alice, is allergic to the apple and she knows this. If she eats the apple she will die in 24 hours. The third and final person, let's call him Brad, has nothing to do for the day and is currently hungry. There is no agreement between the three about the apple and all are free to eat it. The apple is eaten at some point in the day; the question is who ate it. We must use logical deduction to prove who ate the apple.

Bob leaves the house and two facts are confirmed. One, Bob did not eat the apple before he left as the apple is still on the table after he leaves. And two, Bob did not eat the apple after he left because he confirmed a mile away all day. From this we know that Bob did not eat the apple. He didn't eat it before he left and he didn't eat it while he was away.

Alice most likely didn't eat the apple because if she did she would die.

Brad most likely did eat the apple because Bob was confirmed not to and Alice would die if she did.

What we just did was a proof. We had three possible conclusions initially; one for each person.
* Bob ate the apple
* Alice ate the apple
* Brad ate the apple

We proved that Bob didn't eat the apple and we deduced that Alice didn't eat the apple. And because the apple was ate and Brad was only person left who could have eaten it then brad had to have eaten it. Again, we could write this out in the logical language if we wanted, but English works just fine and is easier to work with. At every step we simply took information that was given and logically deduced that other facts were true. So for example we were never told that Bob didn't eat the apple but we did deduce it. We were told three facts: one that after Bob left the apple was still not eaten; two, that Bob was away the whole day; and three, that apple was eaten sometime during the day. We can combine these facts and deduce that Bob did not eat the apple.

This is what that deduction looks like in english:
"After Bob left the apple was still uneaten, Bob was away the whole day, and the apple was eaten sometime during the day implies Bob did not eat the apple."

But we can also show this in the logical language. It would look like this
Facts:
* A = After Bob left the apple was still uneaten
* B = Bob was away the whole day
* C = The apple was eaten sometime during the day

Want to prove
* D = Bob did not eat the apple

Then we say A and B and C => D. This is exact same as the english sentence we had above. The symbol '=>' simply means implies.

There is another point to take into account. We never actually proved that Alice didn't eat the apple. Alice could have eaten the apple even if she knew she would die. But the vast majority of cases such as this Alice would not eat the apple. We can say there is a 99% chance that Alice did not eat the apple and a 1% chance that she did. However, even if there is a 1% chance, it still makes sense to conlude that Alice did not eat the apple. In academics this would be rejected but in the real world this is accepted. When Wall Street is creating profitable trading strategies they don't care if any one assertion is 100% true or not. Wall Street generally settles around 70%. This is important because when do proofs on the asumptions above they won't be 100% true. There will obviously be cases where the facts that asserted or concluded arn't 100% true. However, this does not mean that we should throw out the model or any conclusion from the model. We simply have to understand that the conclusion could possibly be wrong just like how there was a 1% chance Alice ate the apple. Another way to think about this is that next time you eat there is a non-zero chance that the food will enough cyanide in it to kill you. Is it logical then to never eat? Obviously not, the chance is so small it essentially never matter. The same principle applies everything in real life. 100% proofs, while nice, are niche. Life is not lived at that 100%.

# Chained Proofs
There is one final aspect to talk about in regards to logic and proofs to talk about. We can chain proofs together to create complex proof "trees"

In the proofs section we talked about that not all proofs have to be 100% true. We can still act and live on facts that are not perfectly true. Again, the food example is a rather good example of why it's not a good idea to only act on 100%s. It is a true fact that next time you eat food there is a non zero chance that there is enough cyanide to kill you. Should you never eat food again then? So we can assign a percentage chance that a fact is true. And a certain percentage that the proof is true.

So for instance say we know the following facts with a certain percentage (in parenthesis):
* A (100)
* B (95)
* C (99)

And we know that the proofs are true with a certain percentage (in parenthesis):
* A & B =>(83) D
* D & C =>(98) E
* D & E =>(100) F

Then we can conclude the following:
* D has a (1) * (.95) * (.83) = (.747) of being true.
* E has a (.747) * (.99) * (.98) = (.725) of being true.
* F has a (.747) * (.725) * (1) = (.541) of being true.

So we can note a couple of things about this example. One that it is possible to chain facts together even if the percentages are not 100%, and two that it is rather easy to lose confidence in the concluded facts fast. We only had three facts and three proofs in the start, but each to varying degrees. However the lowest percentage belief we had was that A & B => D with a 83 percent chance. This is an extremely high percent chance. Again, Wall Street really only cares about 70% chance simply because they don't care about facts they care about making money. This mindset should be used by everyone whether with money or with happiness is irrelevant. But to go back to the example the final fact of (F) only had a .541 chance of being true. This is essentially a coin flip! At the start we had two 100s, a 99, a 98, a 95, and a 83: and we ended up with a .541! 

Because of this extremely fast decay moving we are going to need to have a safe mindset moving forward. When making assumptions for the model it would be best to make assumption that are completely true. This is obviously not going to be possible and thus I will try to assume facts that are either 100% true or extremely high to be true. 