---
id: 121
title: "RTH Part Two: The Utopian Application"
slug: rth-part-2
date: Jan 1, 2023
img: hello-world.png
tags: []
---

# Introduction:
In part one we introduced the model. We created four components, had 10 assumptions, and proved 8 facts. We connected Humans with Reality; had Humans and Reality change over Time; and had Humans and Reality interact on the S&D Field. This isn't a model that we are able to run or are even come up with functions about. We can't give inputs and there are no outputs. In sum, the model represents the real world. We specifically created it this way so that any conclusion we come to about the model or the interactions between the parts are also conclusions about real life. This can be seen with our proven facts. For example we proved Human Subjections change over Time. This is a fact about the model and in turn a fact about real life. Most of the information we concluded in part one were simple facts. However, there were some very important facts: the three most important facts, in my opinion at least, where conclusions about the model in general. 

These three conclusions being: TFP will exist and improve over Time; Humans, Reality, and Time can be viewed at any scale with losing information; Pareto efficiency is essentially impossible. TFP will show up quite a lot moving forward, and very vital to be understood. Pareto efficiency being impossible is also important. No one individual can ever be fully efficient and thus no organization or economy can be fully efficient. The final, and most important, conclusion is that we view the model and reality at any scale without losing information. The scope of the context can be whatever we want. If we want a firetruck to be a supply then it can be. We don't have to consider every molecule or atom. We can simply say that the firetruck is supply. However, if we did want to view molecules or atoms as supply then we can. If a hypothetical involves a chemist who is dealing with individual molecules then it makes sense to use a molecule as supply. If a hypothetical involves a physicist who is trying to take a picture of an atom using an electron microscope then it makes sense to have the atom be supply. The scale, scope, or perspective (what word you want to use) can be whatever we want. This is the same idea behind calculus. Small changes can be combined together to form an aggregate without losing information. Even these conclusions are very important, however these conclusions are minute compared to the conclusions we will come to in this part and the next.

The astute among you might have notice one problem about the model: there is no reason given for why Humans would interact with Reality. Why are Humans making Demands in the model? We know that Internal Utility is the emotional state of a Human and we know that the emotional state of every Human changes with each S&D Connection. So do Humans make decisions to prioritize their own Internal Utility? How about the Internal Utility of a king? The president? Maybe their local government? This is not something we have decided. And because we have not decided this we can not conclude any assumptions about Human decision making in regards the model. On top of this we face another problem. In the last part we very clearly choose assumptions so that they would be true in the real world also. Fortunately, the assumptions made were rather easy to make. Humans having Subjections of Reality is accepted by everyone. Reality not having free will and Reality changing over time are accepted by everyone. The assumption we did make that could be disagreed with was that Humans had free will, but even then it didn't really matter if it wasn't true. We will only use that assumption very late. From that assumption we proved that the state of Humans is impossible to know in the future, and that the state of Reality is impossible to know in the future if there are Humans. These facts don't really matter and won't come up again for a long time. Decision making is not like this. It's very important and we need it now!

Decision making is very important both to the model and to real life. It's important we understand why Humans act. Why do we eat food? Why do we drink? Why do I go to sleep in a bed? I could just as well sleep on the floor. There's no reason I can't sleep standing up in the washing machine. Why do I sleep in a bed? Leaving the individual perspective and focusing on the sociological perspective is even more confusing. Why do governments exist? Why do jails exist? These questions all have to do with a Human's decision making. We have jails to put people in for when they commit crimes. But why is that action a crime? If it's bad why do people do it? As you can see these questions go on forever. Unfortunately we can not just ignore this never ending question. If we want to draw any more conclusions about the model, and thus real life, we need to model Humans decision making somehow. Whatever way we decide to model a Human's decision making process must be applicable to real life. Otherwise any conclusion we draw from the model will be worthless. If the model's Human decision making process is not applicable to real life then any conclusion we draw from the model will not be applicable to real life. This model is only useful if the conclusions are applicable. Thus we must be careful. This is thin ice.

We should ask a couple of questions about real life to start. 
1. Is there a single emotion people prioritize?
  * Does this prioritization always hold?
2. What's the subject people prioritize the most?
  * Does this prioritization always hold?
3. Is there a temporal aspect to decision making?
We have three main questions and two minor questions. Fortunately, the first questions is already answered by academic economics; unfortunately, the second the isn't. The third has a bit more nuance to it than the first two did.

Is there a single emotion people prioritize is quite obvious and academic economics vastly agrees here. People want to be happy; nothing more. Does it matter if people are just if they are not happy? Does a feeling of wisdom override happiness? Obviously not. What about accomplishment? No, that generally only matters because accomplishment leads to a form of joy. Happiness, joy, pleasure, Utility, etc is the most important emotion for just about everyone. The next question is easy to answer then. Yes, this prioritzation always holds. People want to be happy. They go to school because they can get more money so that they can be happier. They save for retirement so that they can enjoy life later on. People don't save for retirement so they can be mad or sad later on. Technically people could prioritize anger or even sadness. But I would make the argument that people are prioritizing these emotions simply because it gives they happiness. Sometimes people want to be angry or sad or even melancholy. Don't get me wrong, I love a good melancholy. But when I prioritize actions that lead to a melancholy I am only doing it because in the moment it is a pleasurable existance. This question was easy to answer. Happiness is the driving emotion for just about everyone regardless of how the happiness is achieved. 

Unfortunately the second question, the subject question, is a bit harder to answer and understand. Sometime people prioritize themselves, sometimes other, sometimes Humanity as a whole. So what should we do here? Should we have everyone prioritize themselves? Maybe have everyone prioritize Humanity when taking actions? Maybe have all actions be taken for the love of their life and if they don't know who that is they prioritize themselves? Quite obviously these all fail in comparison to the real world. The Human decision making process is rather hard to model. An assertion can be made however, and this assertion may possibly work. I assert that even when helping others, Humanity as a whole, their love of the their life, or even just themselves they do it out of a drive for personal Utility. When people pick up litter when they aren't required to they are obviously prioritizing Humanity as a whole, but in taking this action they are prioritizing themselves. They believe that this action is better for everyone and thus for themselves. An individual can only truly be happy and healthy when they are in a happy and healthy society. Thus actions taken by an individual to help society are on some level selfish. BUT just because the action is somewhat selfish doesn't mean the action is bad or shouldn't take place. Obviously people should pick up litter for two reasons. Number one, society will be happier and healthier; societal Utility would go up. Number two, that because society is happier and healthier then the Human will be happier and healthier; Human Utility would go up. If litter does get picked up by an individual does it matter which reason the they did it for? Quite obviously no. No matter what the Human's Utility would go up. In the end people people prioritize themselves. 

However, the example above has an inherient problem. In the example it's clear to see that people would pick up the litter because it improves society and thus the individual. However, we could just as well construct a hypothetical where helping society does not help the self. The individual and society will would be odds. In that instance who would the individual prioritize? Society or the self? Now I don't think we even have to construct a hypothetical here and walk through it because I think the answer is quite obvious. People will obviously prioritize themselves. Even if society truly is on the "good" and "correct" side-which would be antithetical to the real world in the vast majority of cases-there would still be a problem of the individual quite obviously being at odds with them. Society can't force an individual to act and thus the individual is free to act the way they want. Does that mean the individual is purposely choosing "evil" or the "incorrect" action? Not neccesarily. The individual could believe they are on the correct side even if society or the facts or the hypothetical are against them. A lot of times this has been the case in real life (MLK is a perfect example). They believe they are correct and thus they choose to oppose. The individual here is still prioritizing Utility because they believe that their side is the correct side. It's just in this case there quite a lot of opposition. And even if the individual does know and believe what they are doing is wrong they are still doing the action simply because it gives them Utility by proxy of anger, revenge, exclusion, etc. At the end of the day people always prioritize themselves. The only question is how do they do so? Do they prioritize the whole and thus the individual or they prioritize the individual directly no matter the expense on the whole? Based on what we've talked about we can see that people prioritize based on their Subjections with the end goal of prioritizing their individual Utility.

To refresh the mind in regards to the third question: "Is there a temporal aspect to decision making?". This question isn't as difficult as the second question but is a bit more nuanced. Let's look at the facts to start. One, we know that Humans move forward. Two, we know that Humans know fact one. Three, we know that Humans make actions in the present. And four, we know that Time can not move backwards. Which means we can quite obviously come to the conclusion that Humans will prioritize actions in the present that prioritizes Utility in the present and in the future. To what degree this prioritization of Utility throughout Time takes place is irrelevant. We simply need to know that actions are taken in the present to prioritize an individuals Utility in the present and in the future. These actions are obviously based on subjections too. People may be wrong about their subjections in the future while not knowing they are wrong in the present. That doesn't matter though. They make actions in the present and thus make actions based on their subjections in the present. If they find out in the future that their subjections about the future were wrong then it sucks to be them. However, Time can not go backwards and thus they can not undo the actions they took that were based on the false subjections. In sum there is a temporal element but Humans are bound to it. Humans make decisions in the present based on Subjections about the future. However, in doing so they they are making decisions in the present based on Subjections that may be wrong. Humans are imperfect and thus the actions taken will not be perfect.

In sum, based on the questions and our logical deduction we can conclude a couple of facts.
1. Is there a single emotion people prioritize? Yes, Utility is always prioritized
  * Does this prioritization always hold? Yes, this prioritization always holds.
2. What's the subject people prioritize the most? People will always prioritize themselves; whether this prioritization be at the percieved expense of everyone else is irrelevant.
  * Does this prioritization always hold? Yes, People will make actions based on their own Subjections about what gains them Utility
3. Is there a temporal aspect to decision making? Yes, Humans make decisions in the present based on Subjections of the future. These Subjections may or may not come true.

Well, this is great but how does it relate to the model? Well we can make a couple of assumptions about the real world.

1. People prioritize themselves and specifically their happiness
2. This decision making process is for Utility in the present and Utility in the future.* 

* Niether Utility in the present nor Utility in the future is knowable because Subjections are imperfect. However this does not matter. People have to act and will thus act based on Subjections whether correct or not.

And this solves the conundrum we had earlier. If we make these two assumptions we now have model that gives us information about the real world. If we let the model loose with these two assumptions made we would see Humans and Reality update based on these two assumptions. Empires would be made and fall, People would find love and make families, Nationalism would rise, wars would happen, famine and plagues, but so to would hope, love, prosperity, and peace. We would see Humanity move through time and it's effects on reality. However going from what we learned about the model in part one to how the model operates based on these two assumptions is too much to handle. This is biting off way more than we can chew. Instead of jumping from part one to this we will instead go from part one to a utopia. Then when we understand the economics of the utopia we will explore the economics of the real world. In other words instead of biting off more than we can chew we will split the bite in two. First we need to understand economics with untrue assumptions that lead to utopias then we will explore economics with true assumptions that lead to our current standing. The utopia is easier to understand so we will start there. 

Instead of assuming "People prioritize themselves and specifically their happiness" we will assume "People prioritize Humanity and specifically Humanity's happiness". In the real world people always work for themselves. Whether they prioritize the whole to help the part or just directly the part is irrelevant. However in our utopian assumptions we assume they always work up. What we will see is that Humanity will always improve and there won't be any true conflict. The only conflict that will arise will be between finding what is true and what is false. Nevertheless let's add "People prioritize Humanity and specifically Humanity's happiness" to our assumptions and prove more in the logic.

# Logic: